---
layout: post
category : days
tagline: "Sorting"
tags : [coding, interview, day9]
---

{% include JB/setup %}

## Sorting algorithms

### Insert sort
* time complexity is O(n<sup>2</sup>),
* Memory consumption O(n) (and inplace)
* the best case (nearly sorted input) is O(n)
* Stable; i.e., does not change the relative order of elements with equal keys
* In-place; i.e., only requires a constant amount O(1) of additional memory space
* Online; i.e., can sort a list as it receives it

It starts beginning.
Checks if element left is minor. It is is iterator +1. Else swap and checks again.
Until the end of the array

### Bubble Sort
* time complexity is O(n<sup>2</sup>),
* Memory consumption O(n) (and inplace)
* Stable; i.e., does not change the relative order of elements with equal keys
* In-place; i.e., only requires a constant amount O(1) of additional memory space

Creates a bubble where two elements are compared and swapped if unordered.
Bubble from 0 to X, N times
X begins with N and is decreased each pass. Guarantees bigger elements are sorted at right of vector.

### Merge Sort
* time complexity is O(nlogn),
* Memory consumption O(h)
* the best case is O(nlogn)
* Stable; i.e., does not change the relative order of elements with equal keys

Treat each position as vector of size n
Join log(n) times vectors. In joining we known each each vector is sorted and can sort it in o(n) time
Do this until all vector are joined


### Quick Sort

* time complexity is O(n<sup>2</sup>),
* Worst case is a sorted list O(n<sup>2</sup>)
* Normal case is O(nlogn)
* Not stable

Choose random pivot
Create a bigger and smaller list than pivot (not ordered)
Insert smaller and larger number in list. 
Recursively do the same for the smaller list until trivial
Join lists

### Counting sort

* time complexity is O(n+j) (being k the number of different keys)

Orders numbers (not things)
Does an histogram of numbers
Then calculates cumulative sum of previous occurrences (kind of CDF) of the histogram
The correct placement of number is it "cumulative sum" value
